# Data transfer solutions in OceanBase Database

This topic describes the data import and export paths and solutions for various scenarios in OceanBase Database.

OceanBase Database supports the following data transfer solutions:

- Data import into or data export from OceanBase Database
- Primary/Standby synchronization in OceanBase Database
- Data migration and synchronization to OceanBase Database
- Data transfer from OceanBase Database to an incremental parsing system
- Data transfer from OceanBase Database to a message queue

An OceanBase database can either serve as the primary database for data reads and writes or as the standby database for data synchronization. It can also serve as the source or target for data migration.

## Data import and export

You can import data into or export data from OceanBase Database in the following ways:

- By using SQL statements

  - You can use the `SELECT INTO OUTFILE` statement to export data.
  - You can use the `LOAD DATA INFILE` statement to import data.

- By using tools

  - You can use obdumper to export data from OceanBase Database. You can use obdumper to export object definitions and table data from OceanBase Database in a specific file format to the storage media.
  - You can use obloader to import data into OceanBase Database.

You can use obloader or the `LOAD DATA` statement to import data files of different sizes in the standard CSV, INSERT SQL, ORC, or Parquet format into OceanBase Database. You can select an appropriate data import/export method as needed.

## Primary/Standby synchronization

OceanBase Database V4.x provides the Physical Standby Database solution at the tenant level. The Physical Standby Database solution comprises the following components:

1. A primary tenant, which provides read and write services.
2. One or more standby tenants, which synchronize data changes in the primary tenant in real time through redo logs.

Pay attention that the Physical Standby Database solution of OceanBase Database supports only the asynchronous mode for synchronization.

OceanBase Database V4.x supports two deployment modes for the Physical Standby Database solution:

1. Archive-based deployment
2. Network-based deployment

The two deployment modes differ in the data synchronization method. You can select a deployment mode as needed. The synchronization performance of the two deployment modes is described as follows:

- The performance of both deployment modes is subject to multiple factors, such as the database load, storage device performance, and network bandwidth.
- The network-based deployment mode allows synchronization within seconds.
- The archive-based deployment mode increases the synchronization latency to minutes.

The Physical Standby Database solution applies to the following scenarios:

- The primary and standby tenants are homogeneous and support physical replication.
- The primary and standby tenants support zone- and geo-disaster recovery, as well as read/write splitting.

### Archive-based deployment

In the archive-based deployment mode, redo logs are sourced from the archive logs of the primary tenant or a standby tenant. A standby tenant only synchronizes logs from the source through archive logs, without communicating with the primary tenant or other standby tenants.

### Network-based deployment

In the network-based deployment mode, a standby tenant directly connects to the primary tenant or another standby tenant over the network to read logs in real time. The network connection between the primary and standby tenants must be smooth to ensure that the standby tenant can constantly request logs from the log transfer service of the primary tenant. The logs can be sourced from the online logs or archive logs (if log archiving is enabled) of the primary tenant. The system can automatically switch between the two log sources, which is imperceptible to the standby tenant and users.

## Data migration and synchronization

### OMS

OceanBase Migration Service (OMS) is a tool provided by OceanBase Database for data migration and synchronization. You can use OMS for data interaction between homogeneous or heterogeneous data sources and OceanBase Database. OMS supports online migration of existing data and real-time synchronization of incremental data. The data migration feature of OMS applies to business scenarios such as database upgrade, cross-instance data migration, database splitting, and database scaling.

OMS can synchronize incremental data from OceanBase Database and other databases to the message queues of self-managed instances, such as Kafka and RocketMQ instances, in real time. The data synchronization feature of OMS applies to business scenarios such as cloud business intelligence analysis, real-time data warehouse construction, data query, report distribution, active geo-redundancy, remote disaster recovery, and data aggregation.

### CDC

OceanBase Database provides the binlog service to implement Change Data Capture (CDC). With this service, you can directly use Canal or Debezium for CDC when you switch from MySQL Database to the MySQL mode of OceanBase Database. Designed for scenarios such as real-time data subscription, the binlog service collects transaction logs of OceanBase Database and converts them into MySQL binlogs.

## Comparison of migration solutions

Comparison item | OceanBase Database | MySQL Database | Oracle Database
---- | ---- | ----- | ----
Data import and export | <ul><li>LOAD DATA/OUTFILE</li><li>obloader and obdumper</li><li>DBLink</li><li>External table (supported since V4.3.1)</li></ul>| LOAD DATA/OUTFILE | <ul><li>SQL Loader</li><li>Load Data Dump </li><li>External table </li><li>Database Link</li></ul>  |
Primary/Standby synchronization | <ul><li>Based on archive logs</li><li>Based on online logs</li></ul> | Based on binlog master-slave | <ul><li>Based on redo logs</li><li>Oracle Data Guard</li><li>Oracle Active Data Guard (reads supported in a standby database)</li></ul>
Data migration and synchronization | OMS/Binlog service | Replication to ecosystem tools such as Canal | Oracle GoldenGate
