# Best practices for configuring the JDBC driver and OBServer node to achieve the optimal batch DML performance

## Scenarios

If an SQL statement is frequently executed with different parameter settings in OceanBase Database, you can work out an optimization strategy to batch execute the statement. This requires the collaboration of the client and the OBServer node. On the client, you can adjust parameters of the Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) driver to batch send SQL statements to the OBServer node. The OBServer node rewrites these SQL statements after receiving them and generates a batch execution plan. The effect is more significant when you make optimizations on both the client and the OBServer node than only on one side of them, which can comprehensively improve the system performance and response speed.

The benefits of this optimization strategy are as follows:

1. The JDBC driver can send multiple SQL statements at a time to reduce the overhead caused by network requests.

2. The OBServer node rewrites the SQL statements and generates a batch execution plan to reduce the overheads caused by parameterization, searching for the plan cache, and building and destructing SQL execution contexts.

3. With the batch execution plan, the storage engine of the OBServer node can also implement batch execution. For example, it can batch write data to the MemTable and batch check row locks and primary key conflicts.

This topic clarifies related concepts, details the configuration methods in different modes, and describes how to verify whether batch execution is implemented.

## Intended audience

- Solution architects
- Database administrators (DBAs)

## Key terms

### Multi-query

The multi-query feature allows the JDBC driver to batch send SQL statements in MySQL mode of OceanBase Database. It concatenates multiple SQL statements with semicolons (;). This feature can reduce the communication frequency between the client and the OBServer node to improve the performance. Though SQL statements can be concatenated randomly, the OBServer node still executes the statements one by one. Here is an example:

```sql
-- For operations on different tables, the OBServer node does not execute the received statements in batches at a time though the multi-query feature is used.
update t1 set b=2 where a=1;
update t2 set b=3 where a=2;
delete from t1 where a=3;
```

Batch execution can be implemented by making the following modifications:

```sql
-- Multiple UPDATE statements on the same table
update t1 set b=1 where a=1;
update t1 set b=2 where a=2;
update t1 set b=3 where a=3;
-- Multiple INSERT statements on the same table
insert into t1 select * from t2 where t2.c1 = 1;
insert into t1 select * from t2 where t2.c1 = 2;
-- Multiple DELETE statements
delete from t1 where a = 1;
delete from t1 where a = 2;
delete from t1 where a = 3;
```

For prepared statements, the format is as follows:

```java
prepare_stmt; // Defines an SQL statement template.
addBatch();   // Adds prepared statements to the batch.
...
addBatch();
executeBatch(); // Executes all statements grouped together in the batch.
```

### Array binding

Array binding is a feature that allows the JDBC driver to batch send SQL statements in Oracle mode of OceanBase Database. It is used only under the Prepared Statement (PS) protocol. With this feature, the JDBC driver splits an SQL statement and its parameters, combines parameters of the same column type as an array, and sends the array to the OBServer node. The usage of array binding is similar to that of the PS protocol in MySQL mode.

### Insert multiple values

You can use the `insert into t1 values(x), (y), (z)...;` statement to insert multiple data records in batches, optimizing the execution performance.

## Recommended configurations

### Configure an OBServer node

The configurations of an OBServer node remain consistent in both MySQL mode and Oracle mode of OceanBase Database. The parameters related to batch execution are as follows:

- `ALTER SYSTEM SET ob_enable_batched_multi_statement = true;`
- `ALTER SYSTEM SET _nlj_batching_enabled = true;`

`ob_enable_batched_multi_statement` is a tenant-level parameter. After you specify `ob_enable_batched_multi_statement`, the OBServer node can generate a batch execution plan for SQL statements that are batch sent by using the multi-query or array binding feature.

`_nlj_batching_enabled` is a system variable. It controls whether to enable the group rescan optimization for nested loop joins (NLJs). Though this optimization is in little relation to batch SQL execution, it will be used in the generated batch execution plan. Therefore, we recommend that you specify this system variable to enable this optimization.

You need to specify the preceding two configuration items in a user tenant.

### Configure the JDBC driver

If your application connects to OceanBase Database by using the database URL, you can configure corresponding JDBC parameters. Here is an example:

```
conn=jdbc:oceanbase://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:1521/?rewriteBatchedStatements=TRUE&allowMultiQueries=TRUE&useLocalSessionState=TRUE&useUnicode=TRUE&characterEncoding=utf-8&socketTimeout=3000000&connectTimeout=60000&user=xxx@tenant&password=****
```

OceanBase Database determines whether to run in MySQL or Oracle mode based on the tenant name that is used when the JDBC driver is connected to the database service.

#### Configurations in MySQL mode

The recommended JDBC configurations for the MySQL mode are as follows:

```shell
conn=jdbc:oceanbase://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:1521/?allowMultiQueries=TRUE&rewriteBatchedStatements=TRUE&useLocalSessionState=TRUE&useUnicode=TRUE&characterEncoding=utf-8&socketTimeout=3000000&connectTimeout=60000&user=xxx@tenant&password=****
```

- **allowMultiQueries**: specifies whether to use semicolons (;) to concatenate multiple statements in the text format. The default value is `FALSE`. You must change the value to `TRUE`. In a scenario where the text protocol is used, you can simply enable batch execution by setting this parameter to `TRUE`.
- **rewriteBatchedStatements**: specifies whether to rewrite multiple statements into a string that connects these statements with semicolons (;) when `executeBatch()` is executed. The default value is `FALSE`. If the PS protocol is used, you must set this parameter to `TRUE`.

In MySQL mode, we recommend that you set both of the preceding parameters to `TRUE` so that batch execution can be implemented when the text or PS protocol is used.

**Exception**: After `rewriteBatchedStatements` is set to `TRUE`, the JDBC driver will rewrite the `INSERT` statements that are sent by using the multi-query feature into one INSERT statement with multiple values, regardless of whether the text or PS protocol is used.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
 <h4>Note</h4>
 <p>If an unexpected error is returned after <code>allowMultiQueries</code> and <code>rewriteBatchedStatements</code> are both set to `TRUE`, you can try changing their values to `FALSE` and contact OceanBase Technical Support for troubleshooting. </p>
 </main>

#### Configurations in Oracle mode

The recommended JDBC configurations for the Oracle mode are as follows:

```shell
conn=jdbc:oceanbase://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:1521/?useArrayBinding=TRUE&useServerPrepStmts=TRUE&user=xxx@tenant&password=****
```

- **useArrayBinding**: specifies whether to enable the array binding feature, which is effective only under the PS protocol. The default value is `FALSE`. You must change the value to `TRUE`. After that, when `executeBatch()` is executed, parameters are passed as an array to the OBServer node.
- **useServerPrepStmts**: specifies whether to use prepared statements on the server. The array binding feature is enabled only when this parameter is also set to `TRUE`. The default value is `FALSE`.

In Oracle mode, we recommend that you set both of the preceding parameters to `TRUE`.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
 <h4>Note</h4>
 <p><code>rewriteBatchedStatements</code> and <code>useServerPrepStmts</code> are mutually exclusive. You can specify either of them. </p>
 </main>

## Verify whether batch execution is implemented

To implement batch execution, you need to properly configure the OBServer node and JDBC driver, and make sure that the SQL statements for batch execution meet the following requirements:

1. When using the multi-query feature, you must ensure that all SQL statements are homogeneous for effective batch execution, thereby ensuring high performance. Constant parameters must be of the same type to avoid type conversion. This way, an optimal execution plan can be generated to improve the query execution efficiency.

2. Explicit transactions must be used, which means you need to set `autocommit` to `0` or use the `BEGIN` statement. This is because all statements in a transaction are executed as a whole after they are combined for batch execution. If the execution of any statement fails, the whole transaction is rolled back, which is different from the execution mechanism of the multi-query feature.

3. Some complex SQL statements, such as a statement that uses the hash join algorithm or the `CASE...WHEN` clause, cannot be rewritten for batch execution. Therefore, it is normal if the received statements are not batch executed on the OBServer node even if other optimization conditions are met.

You can perform the following steps to verify whether batch execution is implemented on the OBServer node:

1. If you are familiar with the technical mechanism of rewriting statements for batch execution, you can directly check the execution plan. Generally, a batch execution plan uses the NLJ operator to combine virtual views consisting of parameter arrays with the original join order.

2. Query the `gv$ob_sql_audit` view by `trace_id` for the specified `sql_id`, and use the found `sql_id` to query information about the batch execution plan:

   ```sql
    -- Search for the specified sql_id by trace_id
    SELECT sql_id FROM gv$ob_sql_audit WHERE trace_id = 'your_trace_id';
    -- Use the found sql_id to query batch execution information
    SELECT is_batched_multi_stmt FROM gv$OB_PLAN_CACHE_PLAN_STAT WHERE SQL_ID='xxxx';
   ```

   If `1` is returned in the output, batch execution is implemented.

3. Query the `gv$ob_plan_cache_stat` view for the executed statement. Here is an example:

   ```sql
   SELECT is_batched_multi_stmt FROM gv$OB_PLAN_CACHE_PLAN_STAT WHERE statement LIKE 'update t1 set c1=%';
   ```

## References

- [Overview](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001715171)
- [Configuration example of JDBC connections](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-10000000001719921)
- [Database URL](https://en.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-connector-j-en-10000000000835944)
